My passport arrived in the mail today, and the expiration date is June 7th 2036. I will have this passport until I am almost thirty years old. I will go to Tanzania in 2026, then Spain in 2027, and who knows how many more places in the next ten years under the legal guise of my college self. What will I think when I am 27 at the airport with a teenager's face in her pocket? What will I know then that she didn't know? Will I miss, or even remember, the 19 year old, and all her hopes and dreams?

They shipped my old passport back to me as well. That one was only valid for five years, and I stare back at my 15 year old self. I remember the hooded shirt I am wearing in that photo. I loved it so much but currently can't fathom why. I am wearing a plain white shirt in my new passport, one that I feel no particular connection to, and probably won't remember when this one expires. I don't particularly recognize the girl I see and wonder if she would recognize the face that replaced her. I wonder if I will in ten years time.

My life is objectively _better_ in 2026 than 2021. I am in a prestigious program at a well-regarded university, studying the topics I find most interesting. In 2021 I didn't even know what I found interesting. I have partied in SF, Cabo, and New York City, while 2021-me was scared to ask to spend time with friends more than once a week. I know how to handle stress and failure with grace, but remember crying in bed over the most trivial things back then. I am beautiful now. People other than my mother think so too. And the biggest privilege of all: In 2021 I only knew what was important to me as an eldest daughter and older sister, and now I get to learn what is important to me for myself! My world is much bigger, but I don't feel much smaller.

Do I know more now than I knew then?

I can build software used by large companies. I can do eyeliner, quite well. I can speak my unfinished opinions, rather than just fully forming them in silence. I can estimate the number of calories in a meal. I can let go of relationships without thinking too much about what could have been. I can say no.

But there is some knowledge that I lost along the way. I used to know what to say when a friend's parents got divorced, but now my mind blanks when I try to help a friend through a breakup. I traded some emotional availability for cognitive efficiency. I used to deeply feel every song I discovered, and now I shuffle the same playlists to quiet my thoughts. I knew less of creation, perhaps, but more of creativity.

I am more confident, but less patient. More careful, but less caring. In learning how to protect my time, I became less generous with it. In learning how to move fast, I became incapable of sitting in peace.

Maybe this is why I don't recognize the girl in my old passport, why I don't think of her as some young child where "oh there is so much she didn't know!" Because she did know a lot. And then she learned, and lost, and now she knows so much more, yet so much less. It's just that what she knew then wouldn't have served her in this 19 year old world, and what she knows now is not at all what she needed back then.

For a given version of myself in one second, there is likely only one version of myself in the next second, and she is very similar to the previous-second version. For a given version of myself in one minute, there are probably 1-3 versions of myself in the next minute, depending on how many choices there are for me to make in that timespan and the scale of those choices. But over the course of five years? For that 15 year old girl, there are so many different almost-20 year olds who her passport could have been mailed to! How many of them live in Berkeley, California? How many of them are becoming engineers? How many of them drink alcohol? Do any of them still play the piano? Would we be friends?

What do I know now that I will forget the next time I renew my passport? I'm scared-- I don't want to know what my thirty year old self will know or what I will have to lose to become her. What if I don't like her? What if her wants are not my own? What if she forgets that her hopes and dreams were not mine? What if she remembers-- and is still okay with that?
